# Defense

Keeping yourself alive and in good physical and emotional health is a
prerequisite for any and all other adventures you might undertake. Take care of
yourself out there.

## Toughness

Toughness is your general wellbeing and represents your resistance to suffering
major injuries. Your Max Toughness is determined by your Body Type and VIG, and
represents your ability to withstand injury after a Good Night's Rest. A person
fresh to battle with full toughness may well shrug off an attack that would have
done serious damage to someone who was already exhausted, and suffering from
other minor injuries. As you fight you will lose Toughness by being hit
physically, but it also accounts for your mental and emotional well being.
Emotional suffering or discomfort can also cause you to lose Toughness.
Toughness usually regenerates fully every time you rest, but long lasting
effects such as lingering wounds, poisons, diseases, or failing to take care of
your bodily needs can cause you to temporarily lose Max Toughness until they are
resolved.

## Defense Types

Your character has an array of different defense stats which can make them
highly resistant against some types of attack, but vulnerable to others. These
defenses fall into three general groups, each of which corresponds to an
Attribute: Dexterous Defense with DEX, Cognitive Defense with COG, and Resolve
Defense with RES. Specifically they are:

### Dexterous:

**Escape**, for escaping a grapple, falling into a pit trap, or holding your
balance in a wind.

**Blunt**, for hard impacts, heavy clubs, blasts of force, and rolling boulders.

**Cut**, for bladed and piercing weapons, being impaled on a wall of spikes,
swords, shards of ice.

### Cognitive:

**Thaumic**, for resisting manifested magic, lightning bolts, fireballs, and
enchanted weapons.

**Null**, for nullifying magic that directly targets you, teleportation, slowing
and paralysing magic.

**Wit, **for defending against trickery and deceit in debate, the streets, the
battlefield, and beyond.

### Resolve:

**Resilience**, for resisting a direct spiritual assault, or bodily
transformation.

**Aegis**, for resisting physical manifestations of spiritual effects, divine
smites, and necrosis.

**Will**, for resisting emotional and mental duress, alterations, and attempts
to control.

Sometimes it may make sense to record bonuses for subsets of specific defense. A
magical potion might, for instance, only grant a resistance to heat, but not
cold. In this case it wouldn’t increase Thaumic Defense, instead you would note
the bonus elsewhere on your character sheet and apply it when defending against
a heat attack.

These defense types are based on your [Body
Type](../creating-a-character/body-type.md), and you can find their starting
value on that page.

## Defending Against Attacks

When targeted by a hostile effect, be it magic or an axe swing, you will have a
chance to defend yourself before it hits. First determine what kind of attack it
is, and what defense type you will need to use to defend against it. This is
usually fairly obvious, but your GM will make the final call if it is needed.
Then take the final value of the effect and subtract the Defence Type which best
applies.

If the remaining number is less than or equal to 0, you successfully block,
avoid, or resist the effect. If the remaining value is greater than 0 you have
been hit or the effect has taken hold. If the remaining value is also greater
than your current Toughness you gain a Wound, a severe injury with possibly long
lasting consequences. This is a lingering debuff which is detailed by the GM,
wounds are explained more later. If the remaining value is, however, less
thanyour remaining Toughness then one of two things can happen.

If the effect does not do direct harm to your character (does not remove
Toughness) it takes effect normally. If the effect is directly damaging you lose
Toughness equal to the Shred stat of the effect (usually dictated by the weapon
it was made with).

## Spirit Sense

When someone attempts to be stealthy around unaware targets this is treated as
an attack made against their Spirit Sense, plus any one relevant skill that you
have (such as Empathy, Perception, Disguise Detection, etc). This will usually
be done privately by the GM without the defender’s knowledge, unless they
successfully ‘defend’ against the deception. Spirit Sense is \\(10 + CNT\\)

## Summary

There are nine different types of defense. Cut, Blunt, Escape, Thaumic, Null,
Wit, Resilience, Agis, and Will. All of which are used to defend against
different types of attacks. You will have to choose carefully which of these
defense types you want to be well protected against, and will likely always have
one or two glaring vulnerabilities.

When you are attacked subtract your relevant Defense from the incoming attack.
If this reduces it below zero the attack misses or is ineffective. If the attack
is greater than zero and greater than your current Toughness, you suffer a
Wound. If the attack is greater than zero and less than your current Toughness,
you loose Toughness equal to the Attack’s Shred value.
