# Beast-Kin

Beast-Kin live in many places, and in many ways. Often they live tribally on the
edges of the civilized world, or integrated into multicultural cities. Each
Beast-Kin race resembles a creature that is itself not an intelligent race.
Beast-Kin often have mixed feelings about the animal they resemble. To some it
becomes a sacred animal and guide, to others a source of discomfort and disgust.

## Dor

The Dor are a small but fierce folk. The majority live nomadically, or as
shepherds in plains and temperate regions. Honor and valor are held as cores
value in all Dor, and a few choose to follow this to its extreme; Becoming
knights, lords, or adventurers. If they worship, Dor usually follow Bullrock.

| Dor                                                                          |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mods: +2 DEX, +1 CNT, -1 VIG                                                 |
| Body Type: Tiny                                                              |
| Languages: Nomadic                                                           |
| Racial: Once per round you can evade the effects of a quick action.          |

Dor resemble a tall mouse. Males average 10kg and 36cm. Females 11kg and 40cm.
Their skin is light pink to grey, their fur is brown or grey. Their eyes are
either black or red. They can live for 45 years, becoming an adult at 8.

## Kong

Kong live tribally in jungles and other warm forested regions. They are
incredibly strong, though usually not the brightest banana of the bunch. In
mixed society they often take jobs as hired muscle, either mercenary, or in the
place of beasts of burden. Though they suffer disdain from some for their
ape-like appearance and lack of intelligence, they make wonderful bodyguards in
or guides through, their native lands, which are often rife with dangerous flora
and fauna. If they worship, they usually worship either Wimble or Grondshok.

| Kong                                                                         |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mods: +4 VIG, -4 EDU                                                         |
| Body Type: Large                                                             |
| Languages: Floran                                                            |
| Racial: Gain a free skill based on athletics with the +2 Component called Innate Strength. Whenever you crit, gain +15 EDU for 15 rounds (1 minute). This effect can stack. |

Kong resemble a large gorilla. Males average 160kg and 175cm. Females 130kg and
160cm. Their fur and skin is black to light grey. Their eyes are either black
or a bright blue. They can live for 120 years, becoming an adult at 20.

## Formeca Worker

The lowest and most populous cast in Formeca colonies. Workers are responsible
for everything from hauling trash, storing water and food to feed other Formeca,
fighting on the frontlines, caring for the young, and more. They are responsible
for most of the decision making that goes on in a colony and will leave
pheromone trails and markings to vote for and against different courses of
action like where to hunt, forage, and dig new tunnels.

| Formeca Worker                                                               |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mods: +2 VIG, +1 CNT, -1 DEX                                                 |
| Body Type: Medium                                                            |
| Languages: Floran                                                            |
| Racial: As a Normal Action you can attack with your Mandibles, add \\(4\*Level+VIG\\) or an appropriate skill. This counts as an unarmed attack, and deals cut damage. You can carry 3 times what a normal person can.|

Formeca Workers resemble a large ant, which can walk either on all six legs, or
only on the back four, using their front legs as arms. They are all females and
average 80kg and 130cm long. Their carapace is red to orange. Their eyes are
either black or red. They can live for 40 years, becoming an adult at 4.

## Sciur

Deeply spiritual Sciur as a species have a special relationship to the bond,
and to the demons which inhabit it. Generally tribal, or nomadic people Sciur
travel from place to place healing the bond. They believe that demons are
necessary parts of the bond, and host them in their own bodies to keep them
under control, and the bond in balance.

| Sciur                                                                        |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mods: +2 CNT, +2 RES, -2 EDU                                                 |
| Body Type: Medium                                                            |
| Languages: Floran                                                            |
| Racial: You share your body with a demon. You cannot use COG or EDU elemental constitutions, or magical items. You can bargain with the demon for knowledge, enhanced bond effects, or anything else that seems relevant. |

Formeca Workers resemble a large ant, which can walk either on all six legs, or
only on the back four, using their front legs as arms. They are all females and
average 80kg and 130cm long. Their carapace is red to orange. Their eyes are
either black or red. They can live for 40 years, becoming an adult at 4.
