# Bird-Kin
Bird-Kin live in varied communities, often away from traditionally mixed
civilizations but perfectly happy to mingle and interact with a few specific
races instead. Their wings allow them to move long distances with great ease,
and many Bird-Kin live their life in a constant state of travel, acting as
messengers, or simply exploring the world.


## Aetos

Aetos soar high above the land on great wings and ponder the deep questions of
the world. At the heart of any Aetos is a life question, which they will pursue
for their time in this world, and upon answering it, usually choose to move
onto whatever afterlife awaits them, contented. Questions can be concrete like,
“what does it take to kill a god?” or more philosophical like, “which form of
government creates the most good for its citizens and nation?” They often
choose to live with the Telek or live a nomadic life searching for the answer
to their question. They usually worship Tonk or Tasa.

| Aetos                                                                        |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mods: +1 EDU, +1 RES                                                         |
| Body Type: Medium                                                            |
| Languages: Lingvo                                                            |
| Racial: Gain a +3 Component name "Question" which you can apply to any skill which has to do with answering your question |

Aetos resemble a golden eagle. Males average 36kg and 180cm. Females 34kg and
170cm. Their feathers are white and gold. Their eyes are a brilliant amber and
they can live for 400 years, becoming an adult at 20.

## Fanin

Fanin commonly live in either small fisher villages, or large monkish
monasteries where they study the martial arts and secrets of the Bond. They are
a humble but contented folk, who usually stay out of the way of the larger
movings of the world. Though many choose not to, when they do worship, they
often revere Wimble.

| Fanin                                                                        |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mods: +2 DEX, +1 CNT, -1 VIG                                                 |
| Body Type: Medium                                                            |
| Languages: Lingvo                                                            |
| Racial: As a Quick Action you can attack with your beak, add \\(4\*Level+DEX\\) or an appropriate skill. This counts as an unarmed attack, and deals cut damage. |

Fanin resemble a Heron. Males average 45 kg and 200cm. Females 47kg and 195cm.
Their feathers range from grey to blue to green. Their eyes are yellow and they
can live for 100 years, becoming an adult at 16.

## Paruli

Paruli are a small, frenetic people with bright yellow plumage. They tend to be
scatterbrained, and need to constantly move. This urge to be moving is part of
what drives their annual migrations. The other reason is the movement of the
fire dragon Valkesh. The Warblers follow as Valkesh moves, staying in the range
of the dragon’s warm influence. Because of this they are a nomadic people, with
no real place to call home. They don’t mind however, being a very cheerful
people, and happy to be seeing the world and staying warm.

| Paruli                                                                       |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mods: +2 COG, +1 DEX, -1 VIG                                                 |
| Body Type: Small                                                             |
| Languages: Nomadic                                                           |
| Racial: Immediately after you take a wound you can create an effect from the Fire Constitution add \\(4\*Level+(EDU\ or\ COG)\\) or an appropriate skill.  |

Paruli resemble a warblers, specifically yellow warblers. Males average 10 kg
and 80cm. Females 11kg, and 73cm. Their feathers range from a bright yellow, to
a darker olive-yellow. Their eyes are black, and they can live for 80 years,
becoming an adult at 9.
