# Dwarf-kin

Dwarf-Kin are stout and powerful beings of a communal sort. They are the only
kin who reliably live together in a single unit, each different type of dwarf
filling another role in society. Thus they form into fortresses, and fortresses
into strict casts formed out of regulated bloodlines. To abandon your fortress
and cast is the highest level of treason a Dwarf-Kin can commit, and results in
being branded, literally and figuratively, a race traitor.

## Formist

The creator cast of dwarvish society. Formists are those who wield the hammers
that smith weapons of legend. Though sometimes allowed to leave dwarvish society
temporarily in order to apprentice with creators of other races, they live most
of their lives under dwarf stone. They worship Krunder or Lindora.

| Formist                                                                      |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mods: +1 DEX, +1 VIG                                                         |
| Body Type: Medium                                                            |
| Languages: Dwarvish                                                          |
| Racial: Gain a +4 Base called Dwarven Profession, and a free skill from this base. Additionally gain +1 to the relevant attribute for this skill. |

Formists are solid and slightly taller than most other Dwarf-Kin. Males average
65 kg, 145 cm. Females 63 kg, 140 cm. Their hair is normally black, though
occasionally red like flame. Their eyes are grey like steel or stone or bright
silver. Their skin is a light reddish brown. They can live up to 350 years, and
become young adults at 35.

## Drost

The laborer cast of dwarvish society. Drost work hard to keep a fortress
running, ore flowing, and mugs of mead filled to the brim. They are also the
least restricted of the Dwarf-Kin, and most likely to be seen venturing outside
of a fortress without the brand of a race traitor. Any dwarf not of a specific
bloodline, or resulting in the unregulated mixing of two bloodlines, is cast as
a Drost. They often worship Krunder, Noel, or Lindora.

| Drost                                                                        |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mods: +1 VIG, +1 RES                                                         |
| Body Type: Medium                                                            |
| Languages: Dwarvish                                                          |
| Racial: If you did not perform a quick action last turn, then you can use your quick action as a normal action this turn. |

Like muts to dog breeders, Drost can take many varied and delightful forms.
Males average 60 kg, 140 cm. Females 57 kg, 136 cm. Their hair can come in any
color from blond to brown or black, and their skin usually ranges from tan to a
dull brown color. They can live for up to 225 years, and become young adults at
15.

## Pirate

Not a cast of dwarvish society, but a resistance group. These dwarves left the
dwarven fortresses centuries ago, and created their own governments focused on
dwarven freedom. Pirates are a resolute folk who go against the tide of dwarven
society. They often work with underground organizations to afford their living.
If you see a dwarf without a brand, they are either quickly returning to a
fortress, or are a Pirate.

| Pirate                                                                       |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mods: +2 RES                                                                 |
| Body Type: Medium                                                            |
| Languages: Dwarvish                                                          |
| Racial: Once per day, for a quick action, you gain +10 RES until your next turn. |

Pirates appearance is much like Drost due to their lack of eugenics. Males
average 65kg, 145 cm. Females 60kg, 140cm. Their hair can come in any color from
blond to brown, black, or occasionally red. The skin ranges from tan to brown,
or light red. They can live for up to 275 years, and become adults at 18
