# Elf-Kin

Elf-Kin are tall, light creatures. Naturally weak, they trade their physical
strength for something Elf-Kin value more, a connection to something greater
than them.

## Fairy

The fairy are a reserved race. They chose to focus on their connection
to the land and forest. This gave them wings, which they use to traverse the
forests they inhabit. They often worship Wimble.

| Fairy                                                                        |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mods: +3 CNT, +1 DEX, -2 VIG                                                 |
| Body Type: Medium                                                            |
| Languages: Floran                                                            |
| Racial: Choose an unremarkable creature to be your spiritual companion. You use your actions as theirs. Any attack against the creature acts as an attack against you with distress damage, you can refuse to take the attack, which will cause your companion to disipate untill the end of your next Good Nights Rest. Add \\(4\*Level+CNT\\) to actions they take which they are well suited for. |

Fairy are thin and tall, but on the low end for elves. They have large
insect-like wings *that they can use to glide, but not fly.* Males averaging
64kg, 170 cm. Females averaging 68kg, 190cm. Their hair and eyes can be green
or brown, and their hair is very thick. Their skin varies from light to dark
brown. Fairy can live up to 200 years, and become young adults at 16.

## Kalic

The Kalic are a domineering race. They chose to focus on their connection to the
dragons, and it paid off. Oftentimes Kalics are the strongest mages in the
world. If they worship anything it is usually an elemental dragon, or Tonk.

| Kalic                                                                        |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mods: +3 COG, +1 EDU, -2 VIG                                                 |
| Body Type: Medium                                                            |
| Languages: Common                                                            |
| Racial: Gain a +2 Component named “Arcane Birthright” which you can apply to one skill that uses ARC |

Kalics are generally thin and tall, with males averaging around 70kg, 220cm,
and females slightly thinner and taller at 68kg, 230cm. They have pale white
skin, but as they get better at a given element of magic, their skin tints
slightly. Kalics hair is a sight to behold, being white, silver, or gold, and
having a strong glisten to it, Kalics traditionally wear their hair long. But
this rarely covers their face, as they are also prideful of their Blue, Silver,
or Purple eyes. Kalics can live up to 500 years, and become young adults at the
late age of 20.

## Sholl

Having given their lives to the shadows, the Sholl have a very close connection
to the goddess of shadows Skimra. They reside in the darkest places that light
still shines, and tend to be too slippery for most to catch.

| Sholl                                                                        |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mods: +3 CNT, +1 DEX, -2 VIG                                                 |
| Body Type: Medium                                                            |
| Languages: Light Elemental                                                   |
| Racial: For a Quick Action you can sink into a shadow, and move through it at twice your movement speed. Regardless of when you enter the shadow you must exit by the end of your turn. While in the shadow you are only damaged by those things which make the shadow disappear. |
