# Gnome-kin

Small of stature, Gnome-Kin are an inward folk who keep their secrets to
themselves, but range a wide spectrum of personalities and social positions.
Gnome-Kin are often labeled as such due to size and  little else, and so races
within the group don’t always identify, or even remotely resemble each other,
but most hold deep respect for the other little folk of the world.

## Etequxod (Ete)

Etequxod (all letters except the first three are silent) are a sad race. Almost
universally enslaved due to their ornament like appearance.  Kalic’s use them as
servants and quite literally lawn ornaments as a way to show personal status.
Free ete are not uncommon at the fringes of civilization. They often worship
Wimble, or TGITC.

| Etequxod                                                                     |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mods: +1 DEX, +1 CNT                                                         |
| Body Type: Small                                                             |
| Languages: Symbal                                                            |
| Racial: Once per day, for a quick action you can cover your body in stone. While in stone all your defenses go up by \\(10\*LVL+30\\). This can be removed at will. While in stone form you cannot use any of your senses. |

Ete look like a clay statue of a garden gnome. Males are 14kg and 45cm, Females
11kg and 40cm. Their hair is white and wild. Their skin is pale and their eyes
are black or brown. They can live, if lucky, for an astonishing 1000 years, and
become an adult at 10.

## Telek

The most powerful of the Gnomes. Telek are technological masterminds. They
invented the first tech golem, and live on giant floating sky islands. Wildly
intelligent, and clever with tools. They wield steam and gears as a Kalic does
magic. As such they hold a considerable position of power in the world, but
rarely involve themselves with pursuits beyond the invention of their next
mechanical wonder. They often worship Tonk, or choose to kneel to no higher
power.

| Telek                                                                        |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mods: +3 EDU, +1 RES, -2 CNT                                                 |
| Body Type: Small                                                             |
| Languages: Lingvo                                                            |
| Racial: Gain a +3 component called Genius which can be applied to any non-constitution based Education skill. |

Telek vary widely in appearance due to technological modification. Males
average 27kg and 75cm. Females 25kg and 70cm. Their hair, eyes, and skin can be
any color they choose. They can live up to 300 years, and become adults at 18.

## Pixie

Some of the smallest and most beautiful creatures in Ver, Pixies look like tiny
humans with butterfly wings. Hunted for both their beauty and Pixie Powder,
Pixies tend to create small Pixie societies within, or close to villages. Pixies
often make their homes in small underground burrow, or hollowed out trees, and
boulders.

| Pixie                                                                        |
|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mods: +2 DEX, +2 COG, -2 VIG                                                 |
| Body Type: Minute                                                            |
| Languages:                                                    |
| Racial: For a Quick Action you can sprinkle pixie dust on something, causing it to become weightless. You may add \\(5\*LVL\\) or a relevant skill. Causing a small target to become weightless for 1 round is unremarkable. |

Pixie are universally known for their beauty, and butterfly like wings. Males
and Females average 1kg, and 16cm. Their body proportions are that of humans,
and their hair, eyes, and skin come in almost every variety. They can live up to
350 years, and become adults at 20.
