# Attributes

Attributes are your character’s core stats, and are the simplest distillation of
your character’s capabilities. There are 6 Attributes each with scores which
range from -15 to 15. When your character does something that requires a die
roll you will always add one of these Attributes to the result, probably along
with other bonuses from Skills and Equipment.

## Vigor (VIG)

Vigor is your raw strength, and physical limits of your body. It allows you to
wear heavier armor into battle, and become a walking tank. You can also wield
heavy weapons like Great Axes, Long bows, and Halberds. Crush stone with your
bare hands and break down doors with your bare feet. Higher Vigor will let you
chop down trees in a single blow, pick up 10m high stone statues, and win every
game of tug o’ war. Lower Vigor leaves you meek and fragile, easy to wound, and
struggling to carry the groceries home from the market.

## Dexterity (DEX)

Dexterity is how well you can control your own body. It increases your reflexes
and ability to dodge physical attacks. It allows you to move quickly and
precisely, balancing on thin rafters, moving silently, performing elaborate
dances and disabling deadly traps. You can use lighter weapons like Daggers,
Short bows, and Spears. High Dexterity will let you slip past the palace guards
unnoticed and remove ancient golden idols from their pressure plates without
triggering the boulder trap. Low Dexterity will cause you to slip and stumble
over even the smallest obstacles and accidentally drop the measuring cup of
water as you move it from the water basin to the mixing bowl.

## Education (EDU)

Education is your learned knowledge and learning ability. It allows you to learn
more Skills and Languages, and remember important bits of trivia as well as
where you parked your horse drawn carriage. It also encompasses known academic
knowledge, and can be used to identify magic, alchemy, and technological items.
Some types of magic also rely on Education. High Education will turn you into a
walking library of facts, drawing upon the esoteric techniques of the worlds
greatest minds. Low Education will have you scratching your head in confusion,
getting lost, and struggling to remember which berries you should and shouldn’t
be eating.

## Cognition (COG)

Cognition is your raw mental processing power, and the ability to adapt to
unfamiliar circumstances and think on your feet. It lets you win debates with
sound logic, and outwit your opponents using new and innovative strategies.
Cognition is also important for application of some academics, such as high
level mathematics, mechanics, magic, and alchemy. Cognition is also used to
compile clues into conclusions, and predict what people will do next. It is also
used for some types of magic. High Cognition will turn you into a mastermind of
prediction and reasoning, solving crimes and picking apart your enemies schemes
as if they were toddlers. Low Cognition leaves you vulnerable to even the
simples tricks and logical fallacies and will make any kind of mental exertion
simply exhausting.

## Resolve (RES)

Resolve is your strength of will and ability to manipulate your own spirit and
emotions. It allows you to regenerate faster, get back up after getting knocked
down, and protects you from mental and spiritual intrusions. It also represents
your emotional stability and self confidence, which is essential in getting
others to put their confidence in you. Resolve can also weaponize your own
emotion through personal mementos, allowing you to harm enemies, or protect
allies, and manipulate your own spirit to attack or hide your presence. Many
gods look for followers with high resolve and grant them their powers. High
Resolve will let you gain the trust of the masses, and stand firm in the face of
certain defeat. Low Resolve will have you cringing away from even minor wounds,
and leave you vulnerable to coercion.

## Connection (CNT)

Connection and ability to manipulate and perceive the spirits of other
creatures. It allows you to manipulate social situations, and get a better read
on people around you. It also represents how attuned you are with the Bond, a
spiritual network which connects every living thing. This can allow you to sense
nearby spirits, use special Idols to mentally attack and manipulate targets, and
use musical instruments to create wide reaching spiritual buffs and effects.
Connection also allows you to maintain and use more spiritually imbued items at
once. High Connection will charm others, out barter the owner of the local
pawnshop, or detect the spirits of living things through walls and hiding
places. Low Connection will render you socially awkward, and make it difficult
for you to notice and understand other living things.

## Starting Attribute Values

When making a character your starting attributes are determined by rolling a d6,
and subtracting 5 from the result. You will do this six times and can choose
which attribute each value goes to. So when creating your character, roll 1d6
and subtract 5, six times. This will give you values between -4, and 1. You can
then add a total of 3 points to your attributes, split in any way you’d like: +1
to three attributes, +2 to one, and +1 to another, or +3 to one. You will repeat
this process of adding 3 points to your Attributes every time you level up. But
make sure not to go over your attribute cap.

## Attribute Caps

There are caps to how high an attribute can be at any given level determined by
the table below.

|         |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |     |
| ------- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ----:| ----:| ----:| ----:|----:|
| Level   | 1    | 2    | 3    | 4    | 5    | 6    | 7    | 8    | 9    | 10  |
| ATT Cap | 5    | 6    | 7    | 8    | 9    | 10   | 12   | 14   | 15   | 15  |

Racial, equipment, and other bonuses to Attributes are applied after the Stat
Cap, and allow you to exceed it. For instance, a race which gives you +1 to
Vigor, could have a Vigor of 5 at level 1, and then gain the +1 from their race,
causing them to have a Vigor of 6. It is a good idea to record this as 5+1 on
your character sheet so you can distinguish from your bonus and your attribute.

## Summary

The Attributes, and what they are used for are, in short: Vigor: Your strength
and athletic abilities. Heavy weapons.  Dexterity: Your precision and agility.
Light weapons.  Education: Your memory and academic knowledge. Some magical
effects.  Cognition: Your mental prowess and intuition. Some magical effects.
Resolve: Your spiritual strength and self confidence. Emotional effects.
Connection: Your social aptitude, and spiritual perception. Mental and musical
effects.

Attributes are the core of your character, split into 6 different statistics,
each allowing you to do different things. You calculate them by rolling 1d6-5
six times. Once you’ve rolled them all, you choose where each result goes. At
each level (including level 1) you will add 3 attributes points, which can be
split between the 6 different attributes however you’d like. There is a limit to
how high an attribute can go based on your level. Racial mods, equipment, and
other bonuses are applied after this cap, allowing you to surpass it.
